Let's talk about CPUs.
I don't think this is a picture of a CPU,
or if it's a picture of a CPU,
it's a really old one.
Because CPUs today have a lot more legs.
I think they're called legs, I don't know
what they're called, pinouts, or whatever.
What it is is you have a chip, right?
And the chip has a silicon.
And silicon is protected in
this black packaging, right?
So this is really just packaging,
what you're looking at,
it's not actually silicon,
silicon's inside of it.
And Silicons have wires out, and these
wires have to be connected to the rest
of the system, and so
they have these pinouts.
Usually, we do probably
bold grid arrays or
other things these days because a CPU
today easily can have 500 pins, easily.
Maybe the latest ones
are pushing thousand, so,
you need a lot of legs to kind of wire up,
solder, et cetera.
So the trend that's actually happening is
that, inside of this physical packaging,
you have multiple pieces of silicon.
So you'll have a silicon for
the CPU and a silicon for
memory right next to each other, and
then they'll just interconnect them.
You might be wondering why silicon for CPU
and memory actually have to be separate,
why can't they be in physical,
same silicon?
Turns out that the manufacturing
process for DRAM is incompatible for
the management process for logic.
And so they can't physically put them on
a same silicon, they have to actually have
two separate silicones that have to go
through separate manufacturing processes.
Okay, so I write something like this,
right, I write a array, and
I maybe write a map on it, and
so if you look at it there's so
much stuff going on in here that
are strings there's a concept of an array,
there's a concept of a class, right?
Array is a class that
has a method called Map,
there is a property map that exists
on some prototype somewhere.
There is a function that the VM has
to create that represents the mapping
operation that are happening over here,
right?
So there is a lot of things
that is inside of just a simple
line of code like this, right?
And so all of this has to get
translated to machine code.
Machine code is this thing on the right.
It's just numbers.
It's really just numbers.
That's the only thing
that CPUs understand.
It's just numbers, right?
And so the question then becomes well,
how does it happen, right?
Like this is crazy magic.
The thing in the middle
is what we call assembly,
which is basically numbers converted
to a friendly human-readable text.
It kinda represents in between state.
But fundamentally that's what a VM is,
right?
VM is translating the thing you
write into all these numbers
that the CPU can go and execute.
And so again, that's what the thing does.
So there's many different VMs out there.
I mean, the most famous one
probably is the V8, right?
So many VMs for JavaScript there's
a lot more VMs there's Java VM
there's other languages as well Python and
so on.
This is for JavaScript spider monkey and
Script core core script.
>> JavaScript core.
Nothing.
Yes.
That from Apple, right?
And so, surprisingly,
I think on high enough level all these
VMs really fundamentally work the same.
I mean,
the implementation details are different,
the way they lay out things in
the memory is different, etc.
But fundamentally,
they work on the same way.
So if I can explain to you how one works,
I'm hoping that all the other
ones Will be not too far off.
And so, as I said, in physical machines,
physical CPUs, we have,
at the end of the day,
all we have is numbers.
Those are stored in memory, right?
So you have a memory, and
you can think of memory as a humongous
array of numbers T hat's all it is,
right And then we have a CPU, and CPU can
do things like arithmetic operations.
It can add numbers,
subtract numbers, divide,
multiply logical operations on it,
and so on and so forth.
And you have this flat memory that
somehow you have to turn into, like,
interesting things like
objects with structure.
If you have conditional jumps,
which is kind of like an if statement,
sort of, but like a very primitive one,
and that's all you have.
And you have this thing called subroutines
that if you squint squint hard enough,
you can say like, it's kind of like
a function but not really, right?
And out of these primitives,
you need to build up.
Up this rich world of strings,
local variables,
memory management with
garbage collection like nice,
beautiful if switch statements, looping
things so you can do four while do right.
Primitive types, objects and
arrays Classes, functions, closures,
exceptions, stack traces,
none of those things exist, right?
And so the VM has to create an illusion
of all of these things for us.
And the way it works is that you have
a big array of memory, and you have a CPU.
And CPU has what is known as registers,
basically,
those you can think of those
ere as local variables.
All right, very few different CPUs have
different amount in the demo I'm gonna
show you I think only have two registers.
All add six, some CPU, I believe had
like eight or somewhere in that range.
I think modern CPUs probably have
60 to 100 kind of arrange of CPUs,
but it's a limited number, right?
That's tiny in comparison
to the size of the memory.
Then there's the ALU, which stands for
Arithmetic Logic Unit.
This basically knows how to do math.
Any kind of math you can think of.
Multiplication, division, subtraction,
whatever, math goes here, right?
And, one,
there's a couple of special registers.
In this I don't know why they
pull out this special or
just go to program counter there's other
ones like stack Connery and other things.
And then what a program counter does is
basically just has a pointer to a location
of the next instruction to read, right?
And so the way this works is
that the CPU on its address bus,
this shows a line but
it's a 64-bit CPU will have 64-bit wires,
will say to the memory, I need the data
from this specific location, right?
And then the memory will send back
the data on the memory bus right here.
Again, 64 bits, or you can see how we can
easily get to 500 pinouts on a CPU, right?
Because each of these buses require
as wide as the bits you have.
This sends the instruction in.
And this instruction
tells the CPU what to do.
Instruction might say, take this
number and put it on register A, or
take this number from register B and
add it to register A or
something of that sort, right?
And the program counter automatically
increments and basically reads the next
location in memory for the next thing that
the CPU is supposed to be doing, right?
So you have this program counter that
is just incrementing, reading the data
from the memory, and each number that
shows up is a specific instruction,
meaning this number means you are to
add these two things together.
Or this number means you are to
do this operation, right?
And so that's basically what it is.